www.ijemr.net ISSN (ONLINE): 2250-0758, ISSN (PRINT): 2394-6962 
 
  269 Copyright © 2017. Vandana Publications. All Rights Reserved. 
 
       Volume-7, Issue-3, May-June 2017 
International Journal of Engineering and Management Research 
Page Number: 269-272 
 
 
 
A Review on Database Security 
 
Shelly1, Gurleen Kaur2 
1Assistant Professor (CSE), Rayat-Bahra University, Mohali, INDIA 
2Student of M. Tech (CSE), Rayat-Bahra University, Mohali, INDIA 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Protecting data is at heart of many secure systems 
and many users depend on a database management system to 
manage the protection. This paper is all about the security of 
database management systems, as an example of how 
application security can be designed and implemented for 
specific task. There is substantial current interest in a DBMS 
Security because databases are newer than the progr amming 
and operating systems. Databases are essential to many 
business and government organizations, to make the retrieval 
and maintenance of data easy and efficient it is stored in a 
database. Database organization and co ntents are considered 
valuable cor porate assets that must be carefully protected 
because databases are a favorite target for attackers. The 
basic security requirements of database system are not unlike 
those of other computing system. The basic problems are 
access control, exclusion of spe cious data, authentication of 
users and reliability. In this paper the challenges and threats 
in database security are identified.     
 
Keywords--- Attack, Database Security, Integrity, Threat 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Protecting data is the heart of many secure 
systems and many users depend  on a database 
management system to manage the protection. Databases 
are essential to many business and government 
organizations, holding data that re -engineered to make 
them more effective and more  tunes with new and revised 
goals [1]. Database security is difficult operation that any 
organization should enhance in order to run its activities 
smoothly. The various threats pose a challenge to the 
organization in terms of integrity of the data and access. 
The threats can result from either by an outside illegal 
program action or by an outside force such as fire or a 
power failure [1]. Most of the database contains sensitive 
data for users which can be unprotected  to hacking and 
misuse [3].Therefore, firms have greater control and check 
on their database to maintain the integrity of the 
information and ensure  that their systems are monitored 
closely to avoid deliberate violations by intruders.  
 
II. THREATS OF DATABASE 
SECURITY 
 
Database security issues have been more complex 
due to widespread use. Database are a firm main resource 
and therefore, policies and proce dure must be put into 
place to safeguard its security and the integrity of the data 
it by contains. Besides, access to the database has been 
become more widespread due to the internet and intranets 
therefore, increasing the risks of unauthorized access. Th e 
objective of database security is to protect database from 
accident or intentional los. These threats pose a risk on the 
integrity of the data and its reliability. Database security 
allows a  refuses users from performing actions on the 
database. There ar e different threats to the database 
systems. Such as Excessive Privilege Abuse when users 
are granted database access privileges that exceed the 
requirements of their job function, these privileges may be 
abused for malicious purpose [3].  Another threat i s a weak 
audit trial.  
 
 
Figure 1: Threats of database security [3] 
 
This is due to weakness in organizational intern al 
system. This is due to weak deterrence mechanism. Denial 
 